# Effect of visual contrast on distance estimation in two Asian honey bee species

Public Repository of the data and code associated with the project on understanding the effect of contrast on distance estimation in two Asian honey bee species (_Apis florea_ and _Apis cerana_) trained in two different natural environments
This repository contains the following folders and files:
1. Contrast_Analysis - This folder contains the images of the two natural environments: the Dense vegetation condition (Botanical Garden, BG) and the Sparse vegetation condition (Open Field, OF). There are 5 images each, at 100 m, 200 m, 300 m, 400 m and 500 m. Additionally the folder contains python code for extracting the RGB intensity values for each pixel and calculating the contrast, as well as R code for the statsitical comparison of this contrast.
2. Datasets - This folder contains the raw data obtained from the experiments. There are 3 CSV files, one for _A. florea_ and two for _A. cerana_. The CSV files contain the BeeID, distance, and the duration of the waggle phase duration, return phase duratioon and total circuit duration for each dance circuit in each dance analysed. The second CSV for _A. cerana_ (ApisCerana_NoIntermediateDances) is a subset of the main dataset with the intermediate dances removed.
3. NLMM_Analysis - This folder contains the R code for implementing non-linear mixed effects statistical models to understand the effect of the visual contrast on the waggle phase duration and return phase duration in both species. A primer on how to fit non-linear mixed effects models in R is also provided in the form of a PDF file in this folder.
4. GLMM_Analysis - This folder contains the R code for implementing the negative binomial generalized linear mixed effects model to understand the effect of the visual contrast on the number of dance circuits.
5. Additional_Analyses - This folder contains a pdf with the details of the two additional analyses perfomed on the data to inspect the non-linearity in the waggle phase duration. In the first analysis, the results from a linear mixed effects model on the effect of visual contrast on waggle phase duration in _A. florea_ is compared to the results obtained from the NLMM described in the NLMM_Analysis folder. The R code for this is also provided in the folder. In the second analysis, the effect of intermediate dances on the normality of the waggle phase duration in _A. cerana_ is investiagted. The R code for this is the same as the code provided in the NLMM_Analysis and the GLMM_Analysis folder using the ApisCerana_NoIntermediateDances.csv data instead of the main Apiscerana.csv dataset.
